baddest yen I was a university professor
in China I think every single student I
had and I had hundreds in total in two
semesters in China every single Tseng
student I had got a lecture on veganism
for me most of them got multiple
lectures and for me they heard a lot
about vegans for me in both English and
in Chinese okay I'm not out here trying
to pull rank like oh I've got numbers
look at how many people I reached out to
face to face when I was in that position
I had unique opportunities to talk to
people about veganism and in this
position right now with much less than
four hours of effort I can reach out to
and do something meaningful over the
internet and and have a meaningful
discussion with a few hundred people or
a few thousand people in a way that I
could not possibly do standing on the
street for four hours with or without a
mask with or without TV playing a video
of slaughterhouse footage and if you
just tell someone a little bit about
yourself like oh well do you know I'm a
medical doctor do you know I happen to
be an architect you know I happen to be
this that you don't happen to be a
musician
well the musician has has options for
forms of vegan activism that other types
of people don't have but my point here
is this is also true about you and you
and you and you all the unique
individuals watching this video some of
you are medical doctors some of you are
architects it's not a simple hierarchy
of better and worse different people can
contribute in different ways and by the
way sometimes people like medical
doctors have the least they can
contribute because they don't have time
and someone who's unemployed may have
the most they contribute this is not
something where we're gonna have a
shallow one-size-fits-all set of
recommendations for all vegans but if
you're saying to me which is what he's
saying I should get out in the street
and stand silently wearing a mask that's
that is making a very particular
judgement about me what I have to offer
and what I do not
[Music]
I Venice yen why do any of us come on
the Internet in the first place anyway
yeah one reason is to make friends
another is to make enemies exchange
information get work done learn
languages one of the functions the
internet that's unlike listening to the
radio or reading the newspaper are the
forms of media is that feeling of oh
it's not just me I'm not the only one so
you've probably already noticed that the
the thumbnail image for this video of
the cover image the first pop top does
not show a picture of me we're about to
cut to a few clips from another YouTube
channel and you're gonna see that this
guy from his own perspective makes a lot
of the same points that I've made myself
recently on this channel yeah I'm not
the only one and I know from the
comments section of my earlier videos
and just even from the thumbs up and the
emails and a lot of the communication of
me getting I know I'm not the only one
to feel these concerns to raise these
red flags I bought some of the things
that have been going on in street
activism the vegan movement with that
Adam had said it's constructive
criticism steel sharpens steel and we
could all get sharper from this exchange
of views moving head towards I hope a
better and brighter future for the vegan
movement after this clip we're going to
come back I'm gonna read and respond to
a comment for one of my viewers it's
doing something I used to get all the
time more like two years ago basically
criticizing my right to criticise it's a
thing that goes on and we're gonna wrap
it up with a brief positive statement
about Who I am who you are and how we
personally can do our part moving
forward with the movement one of the
things that I really found uncomfortable
was the use of the Guy Fawkes mask I
know in modern culture that represents
anonymous which is sort of like hey
we're doing good things but we're
anonymous like we're on the internet and
we're stopping bad things and we're
anonymous Guy Fawkes is a guy who the
max mask is supposed to be portraying is
a guy who tried to blow up blow up the
British Parliament Buildings and he did
that because he didn't like that they
had gone Protestant and he was Catholic
so he thought if he blew up the
Parliament he could switch things around
and get Catholics
back in there so there's a lot of
religious overtones to the appearance of
die Fox that I think modern people or
sort of contemporary people when they
use the mass don't really get he's
supposed to be a symbol of anarchy but I
don't think he wanted Anarchy he just
wanted his particular version of how to
run things I saw I'm uncomfortable with
that I'm a vegan
I make all these videos about being
vegan I am not hiding my face this is my
face and it's a vegan face and I'm proud
of being vegetarian for 20 years vegan
for 20 more so at least 40 years of
caring about the environment and that's
really good I feel good about that
it's an emotional choice but it's also a
mental choice I think I can defend my
position without relying on oh look at
the poor animals I don't think that
shocked tactics work I don't think if
the oh look at the poor animal our
tactic works I think those sort of
really emotional responses are
short-term in duration I would love to
see and love to talk to someone who's
been vegan for ten years I didn't find
anyone at the protest who who came close
to that and maybe they are and maybe I
need to hear from them but there wasn't
anyone in the protests clipping a vegan
for an extremely long period of time so
it's interesting I think would be to see
what happens to this sort of like oh I
feel sorry for the animals when you're
looking at a 10 12 20 year commitment to
veganism I am uncomfortable with the
tactics that sort of say you should feel
a certain way
I think emotion is important part of our
response to making a healthy lifestyle
choice to treating others and treating
the planet fairly but in motion is part
of that I think there's also an
intellectual or mental response where
you make an informed decision that feels
good for you and feels like the right
thing to do so it's the moral with the
mental that go hand in hand I don't
think fear works for a long-term
motivator
I don't think shock works for a
long-term motivator and so those are
some of my concerns if their tactics I
think it's great that they're raising
the debate about veganism and I was
excited to see them down on English Bay
long long before I started this YouTube
channel I advocated veganism on
dog called vegan mind tricks and the
name vegan mind tricks I think pretty
directly suggests that it's a blog
that's gonna prepare you for the
conflicts that you have with meat eaters
the sort of strange debates and
negotiations that often go on even
within your own family I can remember
talking to people but the face-to-face
interactions they have with co-workers
husbands boyfriends brothers and sisters
and yeah once in a while about complete
strangers in the street but the truth is
there's another important category for
vegan matrix and that is vegans dealing
with other vegans a lot of us a lot of
our time and energy goes into managing
the kind of hostility and frankly
emotional sabotage that vegans use
against other vegans vegans try to
denigrate and demotivate one another
tell one another that their efforts are
worthless as may seem to some of you
surprising to hear me addressing this
but if it surprises you you just haven't
been following my channel for long
enough because in four years of address
this kind of state thing from many
different angles I've been on YouTube
for four years over 1,000 videos I've
reached more than 2.8 million viewers
we've covered a lot of ground here on
compel SEL um jumping ahead to kind of
know what I think is the main point or
main conclusion in this conversation
look at the text here that's that's in
bold in yellow whatever my positive
contribution to the movement maybe it
won't
thus the imitating the failures of
others nor the derivative content of
others I think what I meant to say was
it won't be I won't be derivative of
other people's content but it's true I
also mean that I don't want to be
derivative of other content that's
derivative in itself alright I say you
may not know this about me I speak
Chinese I'm currently working very hard
to improve my ability in Chinese after
two years living in China studying very
intensively and I was in a Chinese
language program at University of
Victoria blah blah blah long story for
years I studied other languages
Cambodian Lotion Thai Korea Najib way
the advice you're giving doesn't reflect
anything about my unique contribution of
the movement potential or actual
whereas and then I give a link to two
different sets of videos that tell you
quite a lot about what my unique
contribution is or has been and
potentially what it could be one of the
links is to the manifesto video on this
channel which is titled on community and
that's been translated into a whole
bunch of languages and the other is to a
vegan story book projects which I
originally wrote in Chinese and it's
been transferred into several languages
one of those really describes the type
of approach to vegan activism I want to
take it does so in different languages
and the other demonstrates it you know
the type of approach to being act so
there's something particular about me
I've got my advantages and disadvantages
and what I can offer the movement but my
point here is this is also true about
you and you and you and you all the
unique individuals watching this video
some of you are medical doctors some of
you are architects I was starting to
someone earlier today who was a
restaurant manager and I think not a
vegan restaurant you know there are
people working in the food and beverage
industry
there were people working as you know
bureaucrats scholars whatever it may be
musicians whether you're a creative
person or a destructive person you know
this is not something where we're gonna
have a shallow one-size-fits-all set of
recommendations for all vegans and if we
did it really wouldn't be worth much
right when we do make universal
one-size-fits-all recommendations we
normally come down to advice similar to
what Gary France aione provides great
friends Gary Fran Sione's is a long time
vegan activist he makes recommendations
like talk to people well okay that's
advice that the architect and the
medical doctor and the restaurant
manager can all use right talk to your
friends and family he recommends that
you strike up conversations with
strangers at the grocery store okay well
you know that's that's advice everybody
so with that run that that general fine
but we get more specific like if you're
recommending that you stand wearing a
mask for four hours in silence holding
up a screen with a particular video play
that's really specific and if you just
tell someone a little bit about yourself
like oh well do you know I'm a medical
doctor do you know I happen to be an
architect you know I happen to be this
that you know I happen to be a musician
well the musician has has options for
forms of vegan activism that other types
of people don't have right and someone
who speaks Chinese someone who can go
back and forth between Canada and Taiwan
speak Jenny maybe has some options and
opportunities other people's don't have
right
someone who could maybe reach out to you
and do activism involving First Nations
people Korean a Jib way people or in
some other case maybe mohawk person
maybe there are some opportunities maybe
there's something they can contribute
that's different from standing in
silence wearing a mask and this is not
just worth asking about me it's worth
asking about you and you and you
but look guys here comes the mind trick
so I get this message in the old days I
used to get this all the time not so
much anymore quote I'm sorry I've
watched a lot of your videos and even
though I agree with a lot of your points
it seems like you spend the majority of
your time attacking vegans usually very
ethical and well-intentioned vegans who
are usually more popular than you Oh fie
fie for shame
no I criticize everyone I've criticized
channels that have 15 views of criticize
people who are much less popular than me
if the people I'm criticizing happened
to be more popular than me trust me
that's just just happenstance and when
there and there have been some channels
who have criticized and I've watched
them grow where I knew their channel
when they only had a few dozen viewers
and have watched them blossom to have a
larger larger audience but trust me and
also it is not at all the case that I've
only criticized ethical and well
intention vegans I've I've criticized
neo-nazis so you know literal neo-nazis
within the vegan movement I don't know
other channels that take on challenges
like that really hard criticism of what
you call hard targets but sure also
salaried academics religious figures a
huge range of people and I think that
criticism is really productive as you
already know all right but we continue
we continue with this person who is
criticizing my right to criticise got it
quote I can't help but wonder if you
might be a little jealous I understand
you say that every movement needs a
critic I don't I don't say it needs a
critic I
think that every activist should be an
intellectual every intellectual should
be a dissident intellectual I want every
single one of you to ask yourself these
hard questions I want every single one
of you to engage in productive criticism
of what's going on in the moment I don't
want anyone to be a blind follower I you
know I'd like each of you to take on the
same kind of dynamic role I'm playing
it's not that we need a critic
we need critique across the board from
all angles in all direction this morning
all right I understand you say that
every movement needs a critic yes fine
but also shouldn't we as ethical vegans
be trying to expose McDonald's CEOs and
real true animal abusers and exploiters
rather than the few ethical vegan
activists animals have on their side and
sorry we lost a couple words here I
think you just said something just
saying I think there's just one more
word or something that disappeared from
his comments sorry about that you'll see
what he's sitting up for here you'll see
what his next comment is he may he makes
it sound like it's not too too
denigrating my position but you'll see
he gets he gets Shirdi pretty quick it's
the word shirt he's still in the
dictionary I'll check no I'm not jealous
I'm sincerely passionate about the
future of the movement check out my book
reviews playlist I have a lot of
substantive content on this channel but
what's going on in the movement and
frankly I think you'd have to be an
idiot to think it's motivated by
jealousy for example that I'm reading a
book and doing a book review out of
jealousy as for the other half of your
argument there's already plenty of
uncritical cheerleading for mainstream
veganism in the internet go ahead look
see how little difference it makes and
already plenty of mindless demonization
of corporate villains such as you
request I do again take a look see how
little difference it makes
whatever my positive contribution to the
movement maybe it won't thus be
imitating the failures of others nor
derivative of the content of others nor
their derivative content you may not
know this about me I speak Chinese for
years I studied other languages Cambodia
and lotion Thai create a jib way the
advice you're giving doesn't reflect
anything about my unique contribution to
the
movement potential or actual whereas you
can take a look at these videos lets you
know what kind of potential I've got
well how do you really feel quote I'm
not sure lowering yourself to character
taxes really
I'll pick to prove your point oh I'm
sorry what you wrote to me was it
anything other than a character attack I
and what I wrote you in reply it
actually didn't attack your character it
just pointed out if you look at
something like a book review only an
idiot would look at these book reviews
and they got read this book and did this
book review with no other intention than
jealousy for the author of the book
that's a pretty perverse interpretation
of a book review video so I challenged
you on that but your first comment to me
wasn't entirely consistent if attack
against my character you said that what
i'm doing here is motivated by jealousy
calling me an idiot does not really help
the further our shared cause ethical
veganism nor does it help to prove your
quote/unquote superior intelligence who
was making any such claim apparently
you're ascribing argument to me I didn't
see anything of the kind I feel like you
have a lot of ego wrapped up in this and
not a lot of heart just my humble
opinion it's great that you speak
Chinese Cambodian lotion Thai Korean
it's your boy I applaud your
contribution and I do think this is
quite impressive and I certainly cannot
say I can do the same maybe someday I
will be as smart as you thought that
note so just note note what he's doing
here intentionally or unintentionally
he's utterly missing the point of my
comment the point of my comment isn't
that everyone can learn Chinese believe
me I don't think everyone can learn
Chinese I've even talked about this at
length I don't think everyone can learn
Cree or a jib player those languages the
point is to recognize different people
are going to have different unique
contributions that can make to the
present and future of the movement
whether you are a medical doctor or an
architect or a musician or unemployed
different people are gonna have
different things they can do or you're a
parent who's obsessively researching how
to get enough nutrients and vitamins to
your newborn baby I mean there are
people who are especially in the
parenting lane of the Health Sciences
Lane there are different approaches
different people going to Sunday
contribute but if you're saying to me
which is what he's saying I should get
out
the street and stand silently wearing a
mask that's that is making a very
particular judgment about me what I have
to offer and what I do not okay but I
didn't make any such claim that I was
smarter than you nor would anyone else
who someone wrote back to you and said
hey look man if you wrote back saying
hey I'm a musician what I do what I can
contribute to the vegan movement is
through playing music singing this kind
of creative work it's not a simple
hierarchy of better and worse different
people can contribute in different ways
and by the way sometimes people like
medical doctors have the least they can
contribute because they don't have time
and someone who's unemployed may have
the most they contribute all right we
continue maybe someday I will be as
smart as you dot dot dot
that being said I still cannot and do
not agree with you attacking ethical
vegans attacking um why don't you
compare my criticism of kal-el who's
known as kal-el kitten Calcutta : my
criticism of kal-el compare it to vegan
gains the word attack doesn't belong in
the sense it doesn't there's just no
sense I mean why didn't you actually
click on the links over why don't you
look at my book reviews would you would
you describe a negative book review as
an attack I read the book I read the
book I'm criticizing and then I offered
a critique of it it's not an attack on a
deep level you have to accept for
there's a role for dissident
intellectuals in this movement which is
gonna involve a lot of critique right
and you don't on a deep level that's
exactly what you're uncomfortable with
that's exactly what you reject it's
exactly what makes you feel
intellectually inferior that's a sense
of your aura tea you got a deal with and
putting the word my humble opinion
putting this phrase in it doesn't get
you off the hook here I do not agree
with you attacking attacking ethical
vegans especially when you aren't
putting yourself out in the streets like
these vegans do putting yourself out on
the streets there's only one criterion
of being an authentic vegan activist if
you open a restaurant that counts for
nothing right if you bake bread if you
make pancakes if you hand out
vegan muffins none of that counts you
create a factory producing tofu or
simulated vegan meat nothing absolute
the one criterion the criterion of
authenticity and realness is standing on
the street in a silent vigil and nothing
else not playing music not writing a
story book not scholarship not book
reviews nothing there's no other form of
outreach got it this is how this is how
people are gonna boil you and in terms
of vegan mind tricks this is what you
need to be prepared to deal with let's
be real you talk into a microphone on
the internet I'm not sure the animals
would agree that your quote-unquote
activism is really helping them out any
especially when you spend most your time
criticizing ethical vegans the few
humans the animals have on their side
that being said I still enjoy watching
your content because it makes me think
maybe we can agree to disagree and act
like mature adults and not call each
other names my final comments on this
I'm sorry but you're using double
standards to an absurd extent I don't
say quote I did humanitarian work in
Cambodia and Laos therefore who are you
to have an opinion I don't say I did
ecological activism in Toronto therefore
who are you to have an opinion and yet
you say to me without hesitation you
aren't on the street right now therefore
you don't get to have an opinion in this
case it's doubly absurd because I did
volunteer to participate in street
activism the videos discussed the moral
problem of why it was refused the
opportunity when the organization claims
it is open to all etc so again there's
this one criterion of authenticity
either you're on the street screaming
it's not meat it's murder
either you on the street holding a
candle on a salad vigil either you on
the street in a mask in silence or you
have to shut up and not have an opinion
you lose your right to cup talk or to
participate in this movement in million
other ways such as being the author of a
children's story book about veganism
writing that translating into other
languages publishing it
there were a lot of other forms of
activism here guys you really want to
count me out you really want to
discredit me as a voice in the movement
for this reason anyway yeah it's
ridiculous and you know it might be less
ridiculous if I said to you oh well why
why didn't you do humanitarian work in
in Laos in Southeast Asia why didn't you
go to it there well what what what sure
I'm not doing that to you I'm not but
you are doing that to me
and it's low you may not perceive now
what uh what a low blow that is but this
is the way a lot of vegans try to
denigrate and humiliate one another
really try to destroy a little bit of
motivation that other vegan sabda do
something positive in the way that they
can within the movement again whether
that's as a musician a medical doctor or
an architect unemployed person whatever
it may be whatever your limitations are
whatever advantages and disadvantages
you've got to work within okay um
quote let's be real you talk into a
microphone on the internet I'm not sure
the animals would agree that your
activism is really helping about any
close quote don't use a double standard
my YouTube channel has reached over 2.8
million viewers total do you think I
could have reached an equal number of
people by standing on the street
silently for four hours at a time do you
think my interaction with any of those
people on the street would have been as
meaningful and as in-depth as the
influence I've had on people via YouTube
even for example just through those book
review videos I'm sorry but you and I
don't share what cause we were on
opposite sides the difference is that
you don't realize it and I do so guys
this comes back to Gary Fran Sione's
encouraging and simple concept of vegan
activism he says just talk to people
talk to your co-workers talk to the
strangers you have to you happen to bump
into at the grocery store and there is
something kind of sweet in Gary France a
ones faith in this form of activism
just everyday outreach with the people
who happen to stumble into your life and
I do that I mean I can give an example I
was a university
in China I think every single student I
had and I had hundreds in total in two
semesters in China every single Tseng
student I had got a lecture on veganism
for me most in the got multiple lectures
and if he is from it depends
depends which session they signed up for
sort of thing whether or not they were
in the extra-credit Club the the
english-language practice club that met
after class and this kind of thing they
heard a lot about vegans for me in both
English and in Chinese okay I am NOT out
here trying to pull rank like oh I've
got numbers look at how many people I
reached out to face to face when I was
in that position I had unique
opportunities to talk to people about
veganism and in this position right now
with much less than four hours of effort
I can reach out to and do something
meaningful over the internet and and
have a meaningful discussion with a few
hundred people or a few thousand people
in a way that I could not possibly do
standing on the street for four hours
with or without a mask with or without
TV playing a video of slaughterhouse
footage all right so that's the reality
of the situation we're in guys
this is the sad fact in 2018 a lot of
our time and energy as vegans goes into
these kinds of vegan mind tricks not
against meat eaters but in trying to
preserve our own sense of dignity
against our fellow vegans you're gonna
hear more about that I think in my very
next video because the reality is unlike
someone like kal-el Cullen unlike
someone like Gary Yourofsky even I
really have had to stand up against
extraordinary defamation extraordinary
hostility and attacks including yes real
physical threats of violence from my
fellow vegans and guess what folks I'm
still here I hope that in the next year
on this channel you guys will stay here
with me I hope that you also will keep
asking yourself Disko difficult
questions you'll keep asking demanding
questions about the movement and
together
stumbling ahead in the darkness we're
gonna find a better future for veganism
a better future for ecology a better
future for the animals a better future
for the planet but we're gonna find it
by asking ourselves and others a lot of
hard questions about us yen